These are topics that might be iteresting to do a deeper dive into in the future if 
there's more time.






Lesson 0
- MERKLE TREES 
- PROOF OF STAKE 
- Lightning Network
- Sections 8-12 of the Bitcoin whitepaper


Lesson 7
- When do we specify public vs. internal vs. external etc.
- When do we specify view vs. not
- When do we specify "returns (uint256)" vs. not etc.


Lesson 9
***** What actually are tokens. They're smart contracts? But they have coins assosiated that can be sent? Don't really understand it. 


Lesson 10
- ZK ROllUPS 
- AAVE V2 vs. AMM MARKET  vs. AAVE POLYGON
- ADDRESS PROVIDER REGISTRY







General:
1. Buy some land in the metaverse
    - https://www.businessinsider.com/metaverse-crypto-land-surging-investor-explains-how-to-pick-property-2021-12?fbclid=IwAR1IVXkeh9wzLozcoFO2VKqMF6g-QqrMydIF8xWL3QHEir4bWmcc-_hWmts
2. Use the Brave browser?
3. Distributed File Storage?






PHIOSOPHY
I mean if we go back to first principles, like what's even the value add of Botcoin? It 
just allows finance to be decentralized. Why is that good? Because there's so central bank?
Idk, is that good? I feel like good monetary policy can help economies.

What are the other value adds of bitcoin?
It's public? 

What about Ethereum?




So like Robinhood doesn't actually have a wallet so you don't actually own the coins. So you 
could make fun of people for that, but also like there are tons of Gold ETFs where you don't actually own 
the gold and it's not clear why anyone values gold. So maybe don't make fun of them? 
And also you don't need to understand how the fed works to have a bank account. But that said you 
probably do need to understand how it works to be really good at the financial markets. But do you to be good at 
business? Maybe at enough scale sure. So what's the parralell here. Do you need to learn all this shit actually?
Well I'm doing this based off my curiosity heuristic so whatever. 



SIMPLE EXPLANATION
Ultimately accounts function as units of three numbers, which are mathematically linked: private key, public key, address.
If there's something you are forgetting or don't understand, don't worry, you can figure it out just by reading this doc. 
If there's some minutia which you don't understand, then the simplset explanaition is probably pretty close to the truth. 
You've already learned all this stuff, there is no magic. These are machines doing basic math.











The main value add of all of this truly seems to be creating a web/internet/digital metaverse in which there is no 
centralization. Humanity can build collectively. Everything on chain. 



GENERAL 
Above all, just remember that code and apps and CS and allt his stuff, is ultimately just a bunch of lego 
blocks that all depend on each other. And when you dig down deep enough, all that's happening is some 
switches are being fliipped on and off. ANd all you're trying to do is flip the right switches in the 
right order. That's all it is. Don't get overwhelmed by semi colons. It's all just 1 + 1 = 2 at the end 
of the day. 