It's important to understand that NFTs don't prove ownership of images or metadata or 
anything like that. They prove ownership of a token whcih maps to an image/metadata, 
etc.


NFTs
Non Fungible Token. NFTs are functionally any contract on chain that satisfies the ERC721 standard. 
So you can implement the standard through an interface but then you can add some functions of your 
own if you want. So they can be customized in terms of variables and functions etc. So long as 
all the ERC721 requirements are met, it's an NFT. 

In general, when people say "NFT" they mean an image. But it's actually a contract. And it's 
actually a contract that could refer to multiple images (or even things that aren't images). 
There is a public history of who's owned the items in an NFT, who's deployed them etc. NFTs 
are just a token standard, so they can be much more than just art. But right now the most 
common use case is art.

To actually store the art on chain though, is incredibly expensive. Like a million dollars per 
KB. So users will store the image and metadata off chain. So what happens is you map a tokenID to 
a token URI in your NFT which directs people either to an ipfs location or to a private API. Those 
requests will return certain information like the name, description, and other metadata. In 
that metadata you'll also inlude an image URI which links to an external image, typically on
IPFS or a private API as well. These are not fully decentralized sources, and so if something 
happens and your API goes down or something happens with IPFS (which is pseudo decentralized) 
then you'll lose access to your NFT. 

Remember that "Token" really just means "contract deployed on a chain which stores mapping 
between addresses and balances". ERC20 and ERC721 are both standards for creating tokens. 
For ERC20s the mapping is pretty simple. We have address -> balance. However for ERC721s, the 
"balances" of the token are not interchangeable. Hence, non-fungible. This is because the 
mapping is addresses to tokenIDs, and then another mapping of tokenIDs to tokenURIs. So 
address -> tokenID -> tokenURI. (And if we want to go all the way from owner to image it's 
address -> tokenID -> tokenURI -> imageURI.) A "collection" is what you call the group of 
tokenIDs and thus tokenURIs which all belong to the same NFT contract. So basically all of 
the metadata and images that are contained within an NFT contract are all part of a collection.

And so you can't just swap ownership of tokenID 0 from user A to user B in exchange for 
tokenID 1, because they point to different URIs, and thus different attributes and images, etc. 
So it's not a fungible transfer in the same sense that it would be if you changed balances 
in an ERC20.

One important thing to note is that different NFTs can use the same tokenIDs in their mappings. 
As in one NFT could map an address to tokenID == 0. And a different NFT could do the same. 
Because the tokenIDs only need to be distinct within the contract. Similarly, different NFTs 
can use the same tokenURI in thier mappings. So that means that it is technically possible to 
create multiple NFTs that all map to the same imageURI. You can do this in the same 
collection, as well as across multiple collections. It's not possible to prevent someone 
from mapping to a link of a public resource, i.e. from creating another NFT representing the 
same image. An NFT only proves ownership of the token - not copyrights of the image. This is 
important to understand. Also, it proves ownership by an address - not by a person. Because 
there can be zero to multiple people holding a private key to the same address (holding the 
NFT representing the image).


TOKENID
We have a mapping in our NFTs of addresses -> tokenID. This proves who owns which 
tokenIDs in an NFT contract.


TOKENURI 
We have a mapping in our NFTs of tokenID -> tokenURI. This proves which URIs correspond to 
which tokenIDs in an NFT contract. A tokenURI on an NFT is a unique identifier of what the 
token "looks" like. A URI could be an API call over HTTPS, an IPFS hash, or anything else 
unique. They follow a standard of showing metadata that looks like this:

{
    "name": "name",
    "description": "description",
    "image": "https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmTgqnhFBMkfT9s8PHKcdXBn1f5bG3Q5hmBaR4U6hoTvb1?filename=Chainlink_Elf.png",
    "attributes": [
        {
            "trait_type": "trait",
            "value": 100
        }
    ]
}

These show what an NFT looks like, and its attributes. The image section points to another 
URI of what the NFT looks like. This makes it easy for NFT platforms like Opensea, Rarible, 
and Mintable to render NFTs on their platforms, since they are all looking for this metadata. 
So the above isn't stored on chain, just the URI is, which, when put in to your browser, returns 
the above. 


OFF-CHAIN METADATA vs. ON-CHAIN METADATA
Now you might be thinking "wait... if the metadata isn't on-chain, does that mean my NFT 
might go away at some point"? And you'd be correct. You'd also be correct in thinking that 
off-chain metadata means that you can't use that metadata to have your smart contracts interact
with each other. This is why we want to focus on on-chain metadata, so that we can program 
our NFTs to interact with each other.

We still need the image part of the off-chain metadata, though, since we don't have a great way 
to store large images on-chain. But don't worry, we can do this for free on a decentralized 
network by using IPFS. 


ERC721
This is the main standard for NFTs. As we know, ERC20s (tokens), are contracts that basically
just map addresses to the amount of tokens that address holds on the contract. For ERC721s, 
the mapping is for tokenID -> address and tokenID -> tokenURI.


ERC1155
Semi-fungible tokens.


IPFS 
Interplanetary file system. It's a protocol and peer-to-peer network for storing and 
sharing data in a distributed file system. IPFS uses content-addressing to uniquely 
identify each file in a global namespace connecting all computing devices.

So basically, we can add our computer to the IPFS network and use it as another 
node in the global database. We did that for this contract, we downloaded the 
command line tool for IPFS. So we did: 
`curl -O https://dist.ipfs.io/go-ipfs/v0.11.0/go-ipfs_v0.11.0_darwin-amd64.tar.gz`
`tar -xvzf go-ipfs_v0.11.0_darwin-amd64.tar.gz`
`cd go-ipfs`
`bash install.sh`
`ipfs --version`

There's also a GUI we could use, but command line obviously is how we do it 
programatically.

We mostly work with the /api/v0/add API endpoint, because that's the endpoint 
that's going to help us add our files to IPFS. 

Then to initialize our computer as a node we do:
`ipfs init`

This sets up the IPFS directory and settings files etc. It also give us a peer identity, 
which is our node’s ID. Other nodes on the network use it to find and connect to
us. We can run `ipfs id` at any time to get it again if we need it. Our peer identity is 
`peer identity: 12D3KooWLSkYCVYrqSXsg8wwyyeAiVgoViWs9rBNRGLYKDRjigG5`

It will also give us a command to run to get started. For us it was: 
`ipfs cat /ipfs/QmQPeNsJPyVWPFDVHb77w8G42Fvo15z4bG2X8D2GhfbSXc/readme`

After running this we get a welsome message saying that we're interacting with IPFS. 

Then to take our node online (run our own IPFS node) we do:
`ipfs daemon`

It'll output a bunch of stuff and will give us a WebUI, which is basically the 
address for our IPFS URL. And now our copmuter is running an IPFS node!

The way it works is that if we deploy our images to our IPFS node, then our images 
will be hosted there. But if we decide to stop running our node (end the daemon process)
then the image won't be able to be found unless someone else pins your image to their 
node (hence the pseudo decentralization). So people also upload their images to Pinata, 
a third party IPFS file management service, they'll pin whatever we have in our node.





NFT COLLECTION 
A "collection" is what you call the group of tokenIDs and thus tokenURIs which all belong to the 
same NFT contract. 


EVENT 
It's generally good practice to emit an event when you add a mapping allegedly.


OPENSEA 
An online marketplace for buying and selling NFTs. The opensea marketplace for testnets 
right now only works with Rinkeby. So we're using Rinkeby in our sample NFTs here just 
so that it all pulls through to the test version of Opensea.